at least five people were arrested
during clashes between Ultra Orthodox
Jews and Israeli police on Sunday crowds
had gathered to demonstrate against last
week's Israeli supreme court order to
begin enlisting them for military
service the ultra Orthodox Community
makes up around 133% of Israel's
population and had been exempt from
military uh service for religious
reasons the issue has been a source of
tension for decades and has intensified
since the start of Israel's war against
Hamas in Gaza
thousands of ultra Orthodox Jewish men
on the streets of
Jerusalem they're protesting a ruling by
Israel's Supreme Court that the Army
must start drafting Ultra Orthodox Jews
otherwise known as haredim into the
military in Israel most Jewish men are
required to perform 3 years of
compulsory military service but powerful
Ultra Orthodox parties have used their
bage to win exemptions for their
followers they say it's necessary for
haridi men to study the Torah which they
see is crucial to preserving Israel's
Jewish
identity they say forced conscription
will destroy their Generations old way
of
life so we have to fight them because
that we don't want to go to the Army so
that's the only thing we have to do so
that's what we're doing I believe that
as much as we need an Army in Israel we
also need the Army of people sitting
learning Torah they're doing a lot and
we can't have them draft we need the we
need the Torah in the
country scuffles later broke out between
protesters and police water cannons
filled with skunk centered water as well
as police on foot and horseback were
used to disperse the crowds the issue
could topple prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's
government two parties in his coalition
opposed the change if they break ranks
the country could be sent to Fresh
elections and he could be out of a
job now as well as being an acclaimed
author Alfred Bodenheimer is a professor
of Jewish literature and history he
lives between Switzerland and Israel uh
from where he joins us today welcome to
DW Professor it does seem ironic that
religious Scholars are now fighting to
be Exempted from defending a country
based on religion and surrounded by what
it regards as
enemies yeah I mean uh the whole thing
is based on agreement that already the
founder of the state David benuron has
had with the Orthodox rabbis then you
had a very small amount of Yeshiva
students and uh since after the
Holocaust um Jewish learning was reduced
in High um numbers in in in Poland for
example so they wanted to guarantee a
certain number of people who still
learning of course today you have about
133% of young men young Jewish men who
uh claim to be learning Tas so H it's
simply has become a huge problem and uh
of course you also have problem you have
programs where people can learn the
Torah and at the same time also go to
the armies so it's not the case that
either you learn tah or you go to the
Army there are Alterna so it has
something IR could say yes so from from
what you've said it sounds as though you
see this decision by the Supreme Court
as a sensible one to reflect a change in
the country's
circumstances I should say Yes um you
see there have been discussions for
decades about this issue and the problem
was mainly taking over some of the
obligations uh that the general
population
has also by the So-Cal which is the
Orthodox Orthodox
Community H now with the War uh where it
a situation becomes dense where there is
really a lack of uh people in the Army
the situation hasn't become only one of
a question of uh taking over obligations
but simply fill the um the the holes in
the Army because there are simply not
enough people fighting um considering
you might have more than one front uh
with a war for example in Lebanon and
and other uh directions where Israel is
threatened so it's not simply a question
of who takes over obligations it's a
question H how many people in the end
you will have uh really joining the Army
and it's it's interesting that we saw in
our report some of the demonstrators
actually are carrying or putting up
signs that said we will not enlist in
the enemy Army can you explain to us
this this this apparent view that the AL
Orthodox Community sees the Israeli Army
as an enemy
Army of course you have different
threads in the uh Orthodox community and
there are those who really see
themselves as not being part of the
country and they see themselves as
living in a foreign country and Israel
they don't consider it as really their
state so uh who goes out against the
Torah as they see it is really their
enemy because they say they would prefer
another government which is not Jewish
which is not conscripting then so H by
conscripting the state really uh they
see them they see the state as their
enemy so it's really a kind of Highly
disintegrated uh Community one might say
Okay so the Supreme Court Israel Supreme
Court has made this decision that the
Army must start calling them up do you
expect the Army to actually start
issuing callup papers for the ultra
Orthodox community and what are the
penalties for
refusal I think they will have to start
the court is after them to do this but
they will probably do it in smaller
numbers uh the Army isn't also prepared
just right now taking over like about uh
60 to
70,000 uh people because this is about
the number of uh student students to
whom this all uh occurs um there might
be much smaller numbers at least in the
beginning and you have to see that not
all of those people who are now uh freed
from army service are really sitting the
whole day and learning Torah there are
kind of so-called drop out yot which PE
uh schools where people sit who don't
learn that much but the alter Orthodox
don't want to give him over to the Army
because of fear of secularization
assimilation
and there you have a number of like 9 to
10,000 people who might easier be
drafted because the argument of that
they're really sitting the whole day and
saving the Torah H isn't really that
strong in in this uh connection to them
so uh I think the Army will have to do
if people don't uh go to the Army
probably they won't go into prison but
you will have to problems for example if
you don't go all right we'll have to
leave it there Professor but thank you
so much for guiding us we'll have to
leave it there thank you so much for
guiding us through that so clearly